dis
The following appeared in a newsletter distributed at a recent political rally.
"""Over the past year, the Consolidated Copper Company (CCC) has purchased over one million square miles of land in the tropical nation of West Fredonia. Mining copper on this land will inevitably result in pollution and environmental disaster, since West Fredonia is home to several endangered animal species. But such disaster can be prevented if consumers simply refuse to purchase products that are made with CCC's copper until the company abandons its mining plans."""
"A newsletter distributed in a political rally mentions the purchasing of one million square miles of land by Consolidated Copper Company (CCC) in the tropical region of West Fredonia, over the past one year. The newsletter expresses concern over the environmental disaster likely to be caused by mining of copper, as the region is home to several endangered species. Thus, it urges to boycott the products made with CCC's copper till the company abandons the mining plans."
"While the likely environmental disaster is a grave cause of concern, the plan of action of CCC to pursue its mining project must be ensured. Before retaliating to its mining of copper, more details should be collected to know its actual purpose of buying the land. There is a possibility that this land in West Fredonia is not bought for the sole purpose of mining but for some other novel plan's execution"
"Further, the reasons for the extinction of certain animal species in West Fredonia must be sought since these animals are endangered even before any sort of mining of copper starts. Therefore, the reasons for the threat to animals could be deforestation, pollution of water resources, climatic changes or excess growth of some toxic plants. The extent to which mining of copper can play havoc in furthering threat to these animal species can be measured only after knowing the prevalent cause. Another reason for the reduction in the number of some animal species can be due to unchecked poaching. In other words, it is possible that the mining project of CCC will have negligible effect in deteriorating the present situation. Without the knowledge of complete details, mining plans of the company should not be opposed as it would be a source of earning for a number of people employed. More significantly, the need of copper can be fulfilled by mining only in sites where vast reserves of the same are available. West Fredonia, being one of such sites is likely to be used for mining purpose, sooner or later."
"In case, no steps are taken to save the endangered animal species of West Fredonia, there is no point in opposing the mining plans in the same area.  If at all, it is proved that the CCC will cause uncontrollable pollution by miming of copper and become a threat to the endangered animals, the political parties opposing this plan must come up with more constructive measures. Instead of boycotting the products of CCC, they should convince the ruling government of the drawbacks of this project. Moreover, they must suggest alternative means of meeting the copper requirement, if not through mining."
Boycotting the goods of CCC may force the company to export its goods as there are less chances of abandoning a plan set up at such a large scale. This will not only result in the nation's loss but also do no good for protecting the environment of the tropical region.
"Hence, it would be better to think upon the issues discussed above before agreeing to the given argument, since it is not quite convincing."
"



"
