dis
"Education encourages students to question and criticize, and therefore does little to promote social harmony."
Education brings a child from ignorance to enlightenment. It gives knowledge to a child by making him aware of himself and his surroundings. Information of past and present truly awakens the child. It would be a very cynical approach to say that education does little to promote social harmony as it encourages a child to question and criticize.
"Education creates awareness and enables a child to distinguish right from wrong, good from bad, ego from pride and humility from slavery. It develops a deeper understanding of various religions, belief, culture and trends."
"In other words, it inculcates religious tolerance, appreciation and acceptance for people of different cultures. Imparting knowledge through education is the formative step in helping a child look beyond language, cast and creed. For instance, in the present day scenario countless terrorist attacks have become a grave threat to the lives and properties of nations, all over the world. The most dangerous are suicide bombers and it does not need much insight to realize how these men are brainwashed and misguided in the wake of their ignorance or limited knowledge. True education can develop in them an understanding of cause and effect. It can emancipate them from the unfounded hatred towards people of different faiths and classes. Thus, education facilitates people to live in peace and harmony."
"Educated children grow up to be more responsive and well read citizens. They are definitely empowered to select a better government which looks after their rights and well being. No mean political party or religious bigots can influence them with petty issues and temptations. Educated youth and men can not be misled and exploited in the name of caste, religion, state and language."
"As far as criticism on behalf of educated men is concerned, it is something one can not do away with. There are all types of people from different backgrounds and tastes. All can not think alike. Something that is appealing to a few can be despising for others. This does not mean that criticism is a threat to harmony. It rather implies freedom of expression which is again pivotal in strengthening harmony."
"Abilities to criticize and appreciate, are skills honed through education. Education also imparts the skill of dealing with both criticism and appreciation. In comparison to an uneducated person, an educated one can take criticism better in his stride. He is also better equipped to handle it and can remain grounded on receiving applause as well."
"Education plays another significant role of invoking curiosity and giving satisfaction over a logical explanation. This develops an inquisitive and rational mind in children. From questions asked in a classroom, a child gets encouragement to put forward questions as a citizen to various governing bodies related with say education, communication, tourism or any such public welfare department. It is the right of every individual of an independent nation to ask for a better and a transparent system. It does not hamper the peace and harmony of any nation for that matter."
"Thus, true education liberates a child from social or religious restrictions and biases. It enables him to put a question and demand explanation when required, taking a step towards progress and mutual harmony."
