Many problems of modern society cannot be solved by laws and the legal system because moral behavior cannot be legislated.
It is true that many problems of modern society cannot be solved by laws, as moral behavior is something for which a person has to be responsible himself. Although there are some problems that can be solved by laws, other problems like moral behavior have to be solved by the persons themselves.
It is a persons responsibility to judge his behavior and follow the rules formed for the welfare of the society. Law cannot punish every person for his or her behavior. For example, to save water or not to waste water is the moral responsibility of every member of a society. Any law cannot punish an individual for such behavior. In the first look, it does not seem to be a big harm to the society but in the end, he is wasting a precious thing. Similarly, the behaviors like throwing plastic in public or spitting in public places is certainly not good behavior. Laws can do little to stop these behaviors. However, there are countries where there are laws to punish a person who does not behave properly in public places.
Similarly, with the invention of internet, there are more and more of cyber crimes where it is difficult to find a witness. A person can easily hide his identity, his name, sex, address on the internet. Hence, it becomes very difficult for law to punish the criminal. Although now a days, lawmakers have also found the ways to identify these persons. However, here again, moral behavior can play a role in reducing these kind of crimes.
However, we cannot underestimate the importance of laws in our life. We need laws to protect ourselves and punish those who harm the society. Law helps in balancing the society to be more harmonious and peaceful. Although moral behavior cannot be legislated, thorough enforcement of a few laws can help to solve social problems to some extent. Laws teach people many things about moral behavior and force them to follow those rules. If everyone conforms to laws, it would be very easy for everyone to get rid of social problems.
Still, there are people who find it difficult to follow the laws. Then for these types of people, there should be strict punishments. Otherwise, it will be very difficult to live in the society. Only enactment of stringent laws can protect everyone in the society from the problems caused by the non-moral behavior of a few persons.
To make our society, we have to instill good values in the society at the school and college levels. It will help to teach the students a subject related to moral behavior in their schools and colleges. This will help in reducing problems related to moral behavior.
Hence, although moral behavior cannot be legislated, laws have to be there to curb the problems arising out of immoral behavior. The society and laws have to work hand-in-hand to solve the problems of the modern society and to make our society peaceful.
