dis
The following is a recommendation from the business manager of Monarch Books.
"""Monarch Books should open a cafe in its store to attract more customers and better compete with Regal Books, which recently opened a cafe. Monarch, which has been in business at the same location for more than twenty years, has a large customer following because it is known for its wide selection of books on all subjects. Opening the cafe would clearly attract more customers. The cafe would require relatively little space. Space could be made for the cafe by discontinuing the children's book section, which will likely become less popular given that the last national census indicated a significant decline in the percent of the population who are under age ten."""
"According to the recommendation from the business manager of Monarch Books, a cafe should be opened in its store. This would attract more customers and give a better competition to Regal Books, which has recently opened up a cafe too."
"Although, more people may be attracted to the book store by the opening up of a cafe, but they all need not be the customers willing to buy the books. There may be many who would just go there to relax, rather than show a genuine interest in buying the books. This may add up to the crowd thereby upsetting the actual customers."
"Nevertheless, there has been no mention of the profits earned by regal books by virtue of their cafe. They might just be attracting crowd and not many customers among them. As a result, there may not be much increase in their sales. Before copying the cafe system from regal books, the locations of the two bookshops should be given a thorough consideration. The type of crowd more likely to visit Monarch Books should also be given a thought to. There is a possibility that  Regal Books is situated near some college or university campus with a lot of youngsters around. Their preference for the bookstore with the cafe can be understood, as they are generally more experimental. What may have worked for Regal Books may not work for Monarch Books."
"Monarch Books is known for its selection of books on all subjects and has built a large customer following in twenty years. Closing the children's book section, for aping the new cafe system may not be taken well and bring down its popularity level. Going by the indication given by national census on the decline in popularity of children's books, is not reliable since nothing is mentioned about the year in which this census was held. It may not be recent enough to be considered. Even if there is a decrease in the demand of children's books, it is not wise to discontinue this section, as that would be adding to the further declination of children's book section. Instead, more variety on the same could be made available, not withstanding the general trend of demand and supply."
"The need to bring about changes in the present pattern arises only when there is an indication of Monarch Books losing its customers and drawing less profit. However, the business manager has not thrown any light on such issues while giving his recommendations. On one hand the manager expresses the desire to give a good competition to Regal Books, and on the other hand he suggests opening up a cafe in the book store by copying Regal Books. This may not be appreciated by the customers."
"Without considering the above stated points, opening up a cafe at the cost of children's book section is not at all advisable. Continuing with the children's section will not only maintain its reputation among children but surely among their elders (parents) too. Thus, the argument given is not based on ample reasoning and is unconvincing."
"



"
