The following appeared in an editorial in a business magazine.
Although the sales of Whirlwind video games have declined over the past two years, a recent survey of video-game players suggests that this sales trend is about to be reversed. The survey asked video-game players what features they thought were most important in a video game. According to the survey, players prefer games that provide lifelike graphics, which require the most up-to-date computers. Whirlwind has just introduced several such games with an extensive advertising campaign directed at people 10 to 25 years old, the age-group most likely to play video games. It follows, then, that the sales of Whirlwind video games are likely to increase dramatically in the next few months.
The editorial draws the conclusion that there will be an exponential increase in the sales of Whirlwind video games in the coming months. The arguer bolsters this conclusion by citing the findings of a recent survey which bring out that video gamers prefer video games based on realistic graphics that run on the latest computers. The arguer asserts that the introduction of such games by Whirlwind followed by an extensive advertising campaign that is targeting young people will definitely increase the sales of Whirlwind video games in the next few months.  However, this inference is fallacious, at least without additional evidence in its support.
The arguer's assumption that introducing a new series of games and launching an advertisement campaign are sufficient for increasing the sales is largely fallacious. The arguer needs to address other issues that may be responsible for the decline in the sales of Whirlwind in the past two years. There is a possibility that the standard of the video games produced by Whirlwind is poor and the adults do not find them challenging enough. Even the children get bored after playing the games a couple of times and so the sales are on a decline. Moreover, there might be problems in the company itself like inefficient managerial staff, inadequate sales strategy or stiff competition in the market.  Additionally, it is likely that the video games are sold at exorbitant prices which are beyond the reach of the common man. Whirlwind's competitors might be producing better video games for a lesser cost.  It is likely that unless these causes are addressed and eliminated, the decline in sales will continue and the new video games and advertisement campaign might fail in increasing the sales of the company.
The study being referred to by the arguer lends no support to the argument. This is because the argument does not provide any statistical data related to the study. There is a requirement of providing information related to the cross-section of people who were the respondents in the study. Moreover, it is necessary to confirm that the respondents were in the age group of 10 to 25 years as this is the age group being targeted by Whirlwind's latest advertisement campaign. At the same time, it is necessary to prove that the people who participated in the survey represent the entire population of video gamers. In the absence of such crucial data, one cannot be convinced that the findings of the survey will hold true for all video gamers. Therefore, in such a scenario it is likely that Whirlwind's new games based on realistic graphics might not be well-received in the market and the decline in sales being experienced by Whirlwind might continue into the coming months.
It is not necessary that the advertisement campaign will be able to get the desired results. There is no information about the success of this advertising agency in the past. It is likely that it may not catch the attention of the target group.  Moreover, as the new series of games will require the latest computers, there is a possibility that people will not buy the new games as their computers might not be of the required configuration. As the target group consists of young people and children, they might not be in the condition to buy the latest computers for running the new games. Therefore, the reader needs to be convinced that the advertisement campaign will actually succeed in coercing the target group into buying the new video games.
The argument needs to be strengthened by providing data that proves that video gamers are not interested in Whirlwind's video games solely because of the quality of their graphics. The arguer needs to rule out all other reasons that may have affected the sales of Whirlwind in the past two years. In the final analysis, the recommendation made by the arguer lacks credible evidence in its support, thereby rendering the argument indefensible in several respects.
