A new study collected data that shows that people who snore are more likely to gain weight than are people who do not snore. It is well known that many people who snore also stop breathing frequently during the night for a few seconds, a condition called sleep apnea. The interruption of breathing wakes the person - often so briefly that the waking goes unnoticed - and can leave the person too tired during the day to exercise. Anyone who snores, therefore, should try to eat less than the average person and to exercise more.
The given argument concludes that people who snore should try to eat lesser than an average person and they should exercise more. The arguer supports his conclusion by providing evidence in the form of a study and a well-known fact. The study has revealed that people who snore are more likely to gain weight as compared to people who do not snore. The second evidence is in the form of the fact that snorers suffer from sleep-apnea which is a condition in which the snorer stops breathing for a few seconds, forcing him to awaken from his sleep. This condition leaves the snorer too tired to exercise during the day. Despite the evidence provided, the arguer fails to convince the reader that the conclusion made by him is justifiable.
Firstly, the arguer has not provided crucial details regarding the study, the findings of which have been presented as evidence in support of the conclusion made. The arguer does not present any form of data that establishes a clear link between gaining weight and snoring. The arguer needs to rule out other reasons for gaining weight in the case of snorers before presenting the study as evidence in support of the argument. Moreover, the arguer needs to establish that the people who participated in the study represent the entire community of snorers. Unless the arguer provides such evidence, it would be difficult to be convinced that the results of the study would hold true for all snorers. Additionally, there is a need to provide data pertaining to the number of snorers and non-snorers who participated in the study. It is likely that the number of snorers and non-snorers who participated in the study was not proportional leading to a lopsided assessment of weight related issues of snorers and people who do not snore.
Secondly, the well-known fact that sleep-apnea is a common condition amongst snorers does not substantiate the fact that such people are likely to gain weight. Even if people have turbed sleep during the night, the arguer needs to prove that the snorers are not able to catch up on their sleep during the day time. Even if they are indeed experiencing lack of sleep and are tired during the day, lack of exercise does not necessarily mean that snoring is the main reason behind weight gain. The snorers may have gained weight due to a variety of other reasons like improper food habits, hereditary issues, other health related problems etc. Additionally, one feels refreshed during and after exercising so it is difficult to be convinced that tiredness can be a main reason for not being able to exercise.
Thirdly, the contention that eating less and exercising more should be essentially carried out by all snorers is largely unwarranted. It is not necessary that eating less prevents weight gain. The arguer should clearly mention the types of foods that should ideally be avoided to reduce weight. The arguer makes a sweeping statement related to a reduction in eating all types of food which is highly unconvincing as the means to reduce weight. It is not necessary that the snorers would actually benefit from this diet restriction and exercise regime. Also, it is highly possible that all snorers do not suffer from sleep-apnea so they might actually be getting adequate sleep.
The argument could have been substantiated by proving that all snorers suffer from sleep-apnea and that their weight gain is because of their snoring problem. The arguer needs to provide evidence that clearly establishes a link between weight gain and snoring and also the link between eating less, exercising more and weight loss amongst snorers. Therefore, it can be seen that lack of crucial evidence has rendered the given argument indefensible in several respects.
