The following is a memo from the business manager of National Daily News.
To expand the home delivery service of our national newspaper, we should concentrate on the state of Urba rather than on the state of Sylva. First, the population of Sylva is more widely persed, which would require us to spend more money to deliver our papers in that area, resulting in less profit per customer. Second, a long-term study of television viewing habits suggests that Sylvans prefer local to national news, since they spend twice as much time viewing local news programs as they do viewing national programs. Finally, because events in Urba receive more coverage in our newspaper than do events in Sylva, we can expect Urbans to be more interested in reading our newspaper.
The above article is a memo from the business manager of National Daily News. The arguer wants to suggest that in order to expand the home delivery service of their national newspaper more concentration should be on the state of Urba than the state of Sylva. The arguer gives various arguments in support of his recommendation. The first argument given by the arguer is the widely persed population of the state of Sylva. The expenditure would be more as more money would be required to deliver paper to every individual which would result in fewer profits. The second argument presented by the arguer is the long-term study of television viewing habits of the people of Sylva which suggests that Sylvans prefer local than national news and they spend twice the time watching national local news. The final argument presented by the arguer to support his stand is the coverage which the newspaper gives more to the events in Urba rather than events in Sylva. It is expected that Urbans would be more interested in reading the national newspaper. The arguments presented by the arguer are not sufficient for expanding home delivery of the newspaper to the state of Urba only.
The first argument presented by the arguer is absolutely insignificant that because the population of Sylva is persed it would require more expenditure to deliver paper to every individual. The author has not mentioned anything about the population of Ubra. It is very much possible that a few areas in that state are also persed. The arguer has not mentioned the difference of population in both the states because if the population of Sylva is far more than that of Ubra then in spite of incurring more expenditure on delivery of newspaper per person, it would yield more profits. The arguer has also not mentioned the per capita income of the people of Sylva; if it is more then it is possible that every household would subscribe to the newspaper which would result in increased profits.
The second argument presented by the arguer is that the people of Sylva prefer watching local news to national news and they spend twice the time watching local news. It is possible that in the state of Sylva the clear reception of national news is not available and that of local news is, that is why people of Sylva watch national news. The arguer has not mentioned that they do not watch national news at all and spending twice as much time on local news could be due to the reason that local news programs were more in number than national news programs.
The final argument of the arguer is that because the state of Ubra receives more coverage in the newspaper therefore people of that state would prefer it more to the people of Sylva. It is not important that because the state of Sylva was getting the coverage the people of that state would stop reading the national newspaper.
Therefore, the arguments presented by the arguer in his proposed recommendation fall short of relevant explanations.
