The following is a recommendation from the president of Appleby College.
Whereas Appleby College holds class reunions every five years, Edelston College holds annual reunions for all classes, during which Edelston's alumni are treated to banquets, lectures, and student performances, enhancing their loyalty to the college and their willingness to donate money. Edelston College receives most of its alumni donations during or shortly after these reunions. Therefore, the best way for Appleby to increase its alumni donations is to offer similar reunion activities and to have each graduating class hold annual reunions.
The above article appeared as a recommendation from the president of Appleby College. The arguer in the above article wants to suggest that in order to increase the alumni donations Appleby College should hold annual reunion for each graduating class as compared to reunion every five years. The arguer wants to make his stand strong by bringing into our notice the reunions by Edelston College which are conducted annually and during which Edelston's alumni are treated to banquets, lectures, and student performances which help in enhancing their loyalty to the institution and also their willingness to donate money. The arguer further states that Edelston College receives most of its alumni donations during or shortly after these reunions. Therefore, the arguer suggests annual reunions for Appleby College.
The arguer has nowhere in his arguments mentioned that because Edelston College was conducting annual reunions they were getting more donations. Appleby College was conducting reunions every five years and it could be that the college mostly had students living in far off places and it was difficult for the students to come for the reunion. The arguer suggests that Appleby College should conduct annual reunions but the arguer fails to bring into notice whether the college was monetarily that strong that it could organize such functions every year.
The arguer has also not mentioned what the need for Appleby College to increase donations for is. If the demand has to be met shortly then this way of raising funds is not sufficient and if it is long term then the funds would not be sufficient. The arguer also fails to mention which sections of society's children were studying in Appleby College as if the lower class and middle class children were studying then it would not be advisable to hold annual reunions as the alumni would not be able to give heavy donations. It is also possible that the students in Edelston College were from affluent families and they could afford giving many donations.
The arguer fails to foresee that if such a trend of donations is started in Appleby College then it is possible that those parents who thought of putting their children in this college because of fewer donations would abstain from putting their wards in the college and the college would suffer from loss.
The arguer further mentions that the alumni donations are received by Edelston College during or shortly after the reunion. This must be because rich students must be studying in the college who could afford to give such donations. The arguer has not mentioned whether there was a trend of donations in Appleby College and if it was not there then even if the college organizes annual reunions the donations would not increase. The arguer has also not mentioned if special endeavors or demands were made by Edelston College for donations and if not then they were getting voluntary donations. Then Appleby College has to make specific demands for donations.
The arguments presented by the arguer in support of his recommendations are not sufficient. The arguer has not been able to convince us regarding having annual reunions in Appleby College.
