The following appeared in a health magazine.
It has long been believed that getting at least eight hours of sleep a night is good for health. But a recent six-year study of adult sleeping habits found that people who reported sleeping eight or more hours a night had a higher rate of certain health problems than did those who reported sleeping seven hours a night. People who reported sleeping five hours a night also had an increased rate of the health problems, but this increase was slight compared to that for people who reported sleeping eight or more hours a night. Clearly, people should try to get seven hours of sleep, and they should worry more about getting too much sleep than too little.
The above article appeared in a health magazine. The arguer wants to suggest that people should try to get seven hours of sleep and they should worry about getting too much than too little sleep. The arguer gives various arguments in support of his stand. The first argument presented by the arguer is a recent six-year study of adult sleeping habits which revealed that people who reported sleeping eight or more hours at night had a higher rate of certain health problems than those who reported sleeping for seven hours at night. The second argument that the arguer gives in support of his stand is the increased rate of heath problems of people who reported sleeping five hours a night but this increase was slight compared to people who reported sleeping eight or more hours. Therefore, the arguer suggests that people should get less and not more sleep.
The first argument presented by the arguer is the study which reveals that people who slept for eight or more hours at night had increased rate of certain health problem. The arguer has not mentioned as how many people this study was conducted on as it is very important to know the exact figures before reaching to any conclusion. The arguer has also not stated the problems which are on rise due to sleeping for more hours. It is possible that those problems are not life threatening or very serious. The arguer has also not mentioned the problems of people who slept for seven hours at night. The arguer is recommending seven hours of sleep but even people who reported sleeping for seven hours at night had certain health problems.
The second argument presented by the arguer is that people who slept for five hours a night also had increased rate of health problems but the increase in the health problem was less than the heath problem of people who reported sleeping for eight or more hours. The arguer has not mentioned about the health problems of people sleeping for five hours. It is possible that the health problems faced by these people were more serious than those of people who slept for eight or more hours. The study can not be based on the increase in the health problems but it should be based on the severity of the health problem.
Therefore, the arguer says that getting eight or more hours of sleep is not good for health and getting five hours of sleep is also detrimental for the health. The arguer recommends seven hours of sleep but in the first argument the arguer has mentioned that compared to people who were getting eight hours of sleep people who had seven hours of sleep had less health related problems. The arguer fails to bring into notice the ill-effects of seven hours of sleep. The arguer has also not mentioned the effects of six hours of sleep on people as it could be more appropriate.
The arguments presented by the arguer do not have relevant explanations therefore they should not be accepted.
