The following appeared in a newsletter about education policy.
'The average annual earnings of high school dropouts are significantly less than the average annual earnings of high school graduates. To address this problem, the state governor has proposed that the state should establish free vocational training programs for high school dropouts. But the availability of such programs would probably encourage some students who would otherwise have graduated to drop out in order to pursue vocational training. Hence the proposed programs would lower, not raise, the average earning potential of young people. Therefore, the state should not establish the vocational training programs but should instead focus on improving academic programs in our high schools.'
The above article appeared in a newsletter about education policy. The arguer in his argument wants to support improved academic programs in our high schools. The arguer gives various arguments in support of his stand. The first argument which the arguer gives in support of his stand is the significantly less annual earning of the high school dropouts than the average annual earnings of high school graduates. The second argument presented by the arguer in support his stand is free vocational training programs for high school dropouts proposed by the state governor. Such programs encourage the high school students to opt out of school early who otherwise would have completed their graduation. The third argument presented by the arguer is the decline in the average earning potential of young people due to such proposed programs.
The arguer has not presented relevant information about his arguments. His arguments in support of his stand are very misleading and confusing. The arguer fails to mention the reason of significantly less earnings of high school dropouts than high school graduates. The arguer has not mentioned the exact number of high school dropouts as it is quite possible that in a particular year this trend was seen. It is quite possible that the high school dropouts were placed nicely or else they would have been pursuing higher education.
The arguer in his second argument is against the governor's proposed free vocational training program as such programs mislead students to opt out of further education. The arguer here has not stated the need of such special program. There could be a possibility that the parents of some students were not in a position to support the further education of their wards. That is why the vocational programs were to be launched free and hence such students would be capable of earning and supporting their families. There is also a possibility of some students who were not doing academically well also opting out of high school. Thus, such vocational programs would be helpful for them also.
The arguer in his last argument states that if students keep opting out of further education the average earning potential of young people would be lowered. The arguer has not mentioned that the fact that if they would be undergoing vocational courses then they would be getting placed better and thus they would help in increasing the average earning capacity of young people.
The arguer recommends improving academic programs in our high schools. The arguer has nowhere mentioned that if the academic programs would be improved then there would be fewer dropouts from high school. The arguer has not mentioned that the students were dropping out because there were no good academic programs.
All the arguments presented by the arguer against the free vocational program prove to be baseless. The arguer should give more convincing arguments. Moreover the arguer has not presented sufficient arguments in support of his recommendation. In absence of convincing facts it is not advisable to accept any proposed recommendation of the arguer.
