The following appeared in a magazine focusing on health and fitness.
A recent study of several nutritional supplements showed that subjects who took a daily pill containing luceen had significantly better vision of tant objects than subjects in the study who took other nutritional supplements. Luceen appears naturally in a tasty fruit that grows on the island of Bonopia, and very few inhabitants of that island wear eyeglasses or other corrective lenses. Such evidence suggests that people who develop vision problems should take regular luceen supplements.
The writer of the given argument is of the view that people with vision problems should take regular luceen supplements. He supports his stand by referring to a study where it has been seen that people taking luceen had significantly better vision of tant objects than others who did not take it. Further, very few inhabitants of the island Bonopia, where it is found, wear eyeglasses. This evidence however, is not sufficient to prove the writer's stand. In the cussion given below, the argument is analyzed for its weaknesses and lack of logical evidence.
To begin with, the writer refers to a study of nutritional supplements. However, he is unable to specifically pinpoint the effect of luceen on the vision of subjects. It can be assumed that along with luceen the subjects were on a regular intake of other nutritional supplements. Therefore, the quality of vision could well be due to the intake of other supplements than the intake of luceen. The good vision of subjects can be attributed to other things as well. It is possible that they took a more balanced diet as compared to the subjects who did not take luceen. Moreover, it is possible that their lifestyle helps them to maintain better vision. On the other hand, those who do not take luceen may have a lifestyle where they watch a lot of television or read books in dim light. Such habits can have an adverse effect on vision despite the intake of nutritional supplements. The argument also does not mention the age of subjects on whom the study was conducted. Since in old age the eyesight tends to deteriorate on its own, it is possible that the subjects who developed vision problems were old. On the other hand, those with a better vision were still young and thus had better eyesight.
Further, the study says that an intake of luceen helps in maintaining better vision of tant objects. This does not prove that it can help to maintain good vision of nearby objects as well. Besides there are many other vision problems suffered by people. There is no evidence in the argument that luceen helps to prevent all eyesight problems. Hence, it cannot be deduced that people who develop vision problems should take regular luceen supplements. Moreover, there is also no evidence given by the writer that luceen can cure these defects. Luceen may have certain properties that prevent vision problems, but if it can effectively cure these problems or not is not known from the argument. Therefore, the writer should not make farfetched conclusions that people with vision problems should take luceen supplements.
There may be very few inhabitants of Bonopia who wear eyeglasses. However, this does not indicate that they are on a regular intake of luceen. Nor does it prove that they do not have any vision problems. Firstly, even if luceen is to be found on the island, it is possible that all inhabitants are not eating the fruit containing luceen. There could be many people who refrain from eating it and still have good visions. Secondly, it is possible that the inhabitants of Bonopia suffer from vision problems but do not wear eyeglasses due to lack of medical facilities or due to their personal habits and preferences.
Clearly, the argument is insufficient to provide an explanation for many related questions. The writer comes to his conclusion without proper evidence to prove that luceen is actually beneficial for vision problems. The writer should therefore provide logical explanation of his stand with proper reasoning and convincing evidence in order to make his argument reliable.
