In measuring electrical activity in different parts of the brain, researchers found that people who describe themselves as generally happy have more activity in the left prefrontal lobe of their brains than do other people. Therefore, a medication for stimulating the left prefrontal lobe of the brain would be an effective treatment for clinical depression.
In the above argument the arguer wants to present his stand in favor of a medication that would stimulate the left prefrontal lobe of the brain. The stimulation of the left prefrontal lobe would prove to be an effective treatment for clinical depression. The arguer presents a research as a support to his argument. The research measured electrical activity in different parts of the brain.  The researchers thus found that people who generally described themselves to be happy had more activity on the left prefrontal lobe of their brain than other people. The arguer presents his recommendation of the medication merely on this research.
The recommendation of the arguer is absolutely baseless. The arguer has not mentioned anywhere in his argument that the research was a success amongst researchers or the people who were the part of it. The arguer has also not mentioned whether this research was approved by the researchers or any government organization. The arguer has nowhere in the argument mentioned the percentage of people, proportion of people as to old or young, men and women who were the part of this research. These factors are of utmost importance in determining the results of a research. A small very insignificant percentage cannot be applied to the whole population. It is very much possible that the people who were the part of this research were very optimistic people. The medication for any of the ailments needs to be full proof as any fault or failure in judgment can lead to drastic results.
The arguer has mentioned that the research includes measuring electrical activities in the different parts of brain. The people who described themselves to be generally happy had more activity on their left prefrontal lobe of their brain. This research seems to be very weird as the arguer has not mentioned that because people were happy they had more activity in their left prefrontal or the activity was there in the left prefrontal of the brain because they were happier. This is a very ambiguous statement as it is not clear which of the either is leading to what. The arguer has also not elaborated on the term 'generally happy'. This could also mean that these people are not always happy and also if the arguer would have used the more happy people than others then it would have been more convincing. The arguer has also not mentioned about the other electrical activities of the brain as there could be some more areas in the brain which if stimulated could cause happiness.
The research is extremely baseless as happiness is a very relative term. Happiness can never be triggered.  If one thing gives happiness to a person it need not give happiness to another. The arguer undermines human emotion and wants to present a medication for that. This research does not justify its stand and the arguer fails to prove his point. The arguer needs to present more appropriate and convincing facts as such medications can prove to be fatal for mankind.
