The following appeared in a memo from the mayor of the town of Hopewell.
Two years ago, the town of Ocean View built a new municipal golf course and resort hotel. During the past two years, tourism in Ocean View has increased, new businesses have opened there, and Ocean View's tax revenues have risen by 30 percent. The best way to improve Hopewell's economy, and generate additional tax revenues, is to build a golf course and resort hotel similar to those in Ocean View.
The mayor of Hopewell utilizes this memo to recommend that building a golf course and resort hotel is the best possible way for improving Hopewell's economy. He supports this recommendation by citing the example of the town of Ocean View which had built a golf course and resort hotel two years ago. Since then, Ocean View has seen an increase in tourism and establishment of new businesses in addition to generation of added tax revenues. The argument is unconvincing in several respects as the arguer fails to establish a direct link between the economies of the two towns which are being compared.
Let us first take a look at the economic progress made by the town of Ocean View as outlined by the arguer. The argument makes no mention of the status of the economy of Ocean View prior to the establishment of the golf course and the resort hotel.  It is quite possible that Ocean View was already on the path to progress much before the golf course and resort hotel were built. Moreover, the arguer has failed to provide information related to tourism in Ocean View. It is likely that Ocean View boasts of numerous tourist spots and beautiful locales. Additionally, the weather in Ocean View may be pleasant throughout the year. It is likely that Ocean View has invested time, effort and money in an extensive publicity campaign for its tourism department. One cannot ignore the fact that Ocean View may be having many other resorts and hotels and so there is no dearth of accommodation for tourists at any time of the year.
All the above mentioned factors would significantly contribute to the fact that the town of Ocean View is experiencing an increase in tourism and establishment of new businesses. It is quite possible that these factors were in force much before the construction of the new golf course and resort hotel. It is likely that the new businesses that are opening in Ocean View are not linked to the golf course or the resort hotel in any way whatsoever. Therefore, the assumption that the tourism and economy of the town of Ocean View has benefited only from the construction of the new golf course and resort hotel is completely unwarranted. As the reason for the improved economy in Ocean View is questionable, linking this improvement to establishing a similar golf course and resort hotel in Hopewell for improving its economy is highly unjustified.
The arguer has ignored the fact that the commercialization of a tourist location may result in diminished tourism as the place will lose its idyllic charm. Therefore, it is quite possible that the establishment of these new businesses may actually bring down the town's economy in the long run. Moreover, the arguer does not address any other reasons, like an increase in tax rates, for the increase in tax revenues in Ocean View.
Another major lacuna in the argument is that if indeed the establishment of the golf course and resort hotel is solely responsible for the economic progress of Ocean View, it is not necessary that following in the footsteps of Ocean View would generate the same results for Hopewell also. It is likely that the town of Hopewell neither has the financial support nor the space for the establishment of a golf course and resort hotel. There may be other geographical and demographical differences between these two towns and therefore, what proved to be beneficial for Ocean View may not be the same for Hopewell too.
To bolster the recommendation, the argument should have included evidence that proved the link between Ocean View's golf course, the resort hotel and Ocean View's economic progress during the last two years. Moreover, there is a requirement of evidence that proves that carrying out a similar action in Hopewell will have the same results. In sum, the arguer's recommendation is inadequately supported due to lack of concrete evidence.
