Government should never censor the artistic works or historical plays that a museum wishes to exhibit.
People of a nation are given some fundamental rights which are necessary for their survival. It becomes the prime responsibility of the citizens of any nation to exercise their rights and duties with utmost care. People in a country are free to say, write and do as they please but it should not be harming the interest of any other individual. The same applies for a museum that wishes to exhibit the artistic work or historical plays. In such matters government plays a vital role as government has the right to censor any objectionable or obscene play of any form of art in museums. I believe that the government should censor all artistic works or historical plays that need to be played to general public. The government is not only responsible for securing the rights of its citizens but also for what it needs to present to the citizens as it can also violate law.
A country's government, which has vast cultural differences, needs to be very creet in its public play of any kinds. Museums are the places which all sections and strata of people visit for recreation. The plays made there should be carefully selected as they should not harm the sentiments of any section of the society. A government not only protects the interest of people but also prosecutes those who harm the interest of the others. The government has to take active part in all the matters concerning the interest of general public. If any artist wishes to present his thought through his paintings but his paintings harm the interest of a section of a society then such a play can not be permitted by government. Similarly if any historical play which a museum needs to play is extremely precious then it becomes the vital responsibility of the government to save such a possession.
Although the government should be concerned about what is been played in the museums but the government should not have a very strict approach towards such plays. In country where there are vast cultural difference if the government officers favor a particular community then they would consider their interest with priority but this certainly does not mean that they would not take into consideration the interest of other communities. Government should be consulted for the decision but the artist should also be able to make his point clear on his plays. The endeavors should be made on the part of government to keep some qualified people in the museum who can help people understand the play better without any misinterpretation or confusion.
Therefore the role of the government should be vital. The government should also take into consideration the interest of the artist who wishes to play his creation for public or any historical play by any organization. The interest of the general public should also be taken into notice by the government while making any such decisions.
