Humanity has made little real progress over the past century or so. Technological innovations have taken place, but the overall condition of humanity is no better. War, violence, and poverty are still with us. Technology cannot change the condition of humanity.
We have come a long way over the past century. Our lives have changed to unimaginable limits. There has been a technological boost that has helped in changing the standards of living. In the past one century there has also been a change in the condition of humans. People have risen from their past to a better position and there are fewer wars and violence all over the world. However, this has little to do with technology. I differ from the given statement because according to me, the condition of humanity is affected by technology only to a limited extent, beyond which it is the administration that is responsible for its people. Therefore, technology can do only little on its own to make a difference to the condition of humanity.
As mentioned earlier by me, there has been a great change in humanity in the past century. If the evils of the society like war, poverty and violence have not completely vanished, they have surely reduced. Many countries have gained independence in the past century and are on the road to development. Similarly, peace treaties are signed among nations to avoid wars. The condition of poor has improved to a great extent because of the innovation of technology. For example, in case of floods about a century ago, people either used to be wiped out or die of hunger since there was no way to reach to them. However, these days due to advancement of technology, it is easier to reach flood-hit areas and provide people with food and medicines. They can be evacuated and thus many lives can be saved. Similarly, with the help of technology, it is easier to predict cyclones and sea turbances, and consequently people living by seaside be warned to move to safer places. Apart from technological help, there are many organizations working for humanity. Therefore, it would be incorrect to say that humanity has made very little progress in the past century.
As can be observed, technology has helped humanity in the ways that it could. However, for the upliftment of the poor and progress of humanity, it is not the technological development but the government organizations and efforts made by people that make a difference. It is the efforts of the administration that can help in reducing violence, wars and poverty. Technological innovations have made life easier, but it must be noted that it is not easily accessible by the poor. A developing nation could have technical know-how but it also could have a lot of people below poverty line. For the poor it is more important to make their ends meet. It becomes difficult or them to afford costly treatments and medicines etc. Similarly, a poor farmer burdened with debt cannot afford to buy good variety of seeds, pesticides, tractors etc. This is where the government steps in. It is only if the administration is efficient that humanitarian work will make progress. The administration can provide subsidized seeds and pesticides to farmers. It can establish government hospitals in order to extend free medical help to the poor. Similarly, it is only when the administration makes efforts to educate all children, bring down the gap between rich and poor and provide jobs for all that there is hope of a brighter future.
Similarly, we cannot hold technological innovations responsible for the wars and violence, but it is the administration that has to make wise and appropriate decisions by keeping in mind the benefit of the masses. If nuclear power poses a threat to world peace, it is in the hands of administration to make justified use of the same.
I therefore believe that humanitarian work is but the efforts of people and administrators. While humanity has surely made great progress since the past century, war, violence and poverty can only be reduced by the efforts of administrators.
