The following appeared in a magazine article about planning for retirement.
Because of its spectacular natural beauty and consistent climate, Clearview should be a top choice for anyone seeking a place to retire. As a bonus, housing costs in Clearview have fallen significantly during the past year, and real estate taxes remain lower than those in neighboring towns. Nevertheless, Clearview's mayor promises many new programs to improve schools, streets, and public services. Retirees in Clearview can also expect excellent health care as they grow older, since the number of physicians in the area is far greater than the national average.
The argument presented in the article of the magazine says that Clearview should be the top choice for retirees seeking a place to settle. This is supported by listing the benefits like low housing costs and real estate taxes besides the beauty of the place. The article also mentions the promises made by the mayor that will further make the place worth living for retirees. However, the argument is not convincing enough and is failing in many places.
The article mentions that the housing costs of Clearview have fallen significantly. However, they may still be higher than in many other places. There is no mention of the comparison of housing costs of other places with that of Clearview's in the article. The information about the housing costs at other places is important for a person who has to choose a place to settle. If the costs at Clearview have fallen significantly, it is possible that they were very high initially. Therefore, a lowering of these prices does not mean that they are affordable and lower than other places as well. It only means that they have lowered than what they were before.
Similarly, if the real estate prices are lower than those in the neighboring towns, it does not conclude that they are the lowest in all towns. There could be many towns where real estate prices are much lower. These may not be the neighboring towns but they can be the choice of retirees due to their costs being lowest amongst all other places.
While the mayor promises many new programs to improve the place nothing is said about the existing condition of the place. Someone looking for a place to retire and settle would look into the present infrastructure and not the one that is promised. This is because there is no guarantee of the fact that the promises of the mayor will be fulfilled. It is likely that he fails to fulfill his promises and the place does not see any development.
Further, the mayor promises to improve services like schools, which are of little use to the retirees. While such improvements will surely improve the place, it does not make it a priority place for retirees. People need other benefits after retirement like recreational opportunities, clubs and entertainment, social service opportunities, health benefits etc. The mayor should instead improve the town in such areas to encourage people to choose the town as a place to settle after retirement.
The article mentions that people can expect excellent health care facilities since the number of physicians in Clearview is far more than at any other place. However, it does not mention if these physicians are of repute or not. The state of good health depends upon the quality of health care and not just the number of physicians. There may be many physicians in Clearview but they could be lacking efficiency, which makes them unpopular amongst residents. The attitude of these physicians could be cold making them unfriendly and unapproachable. Therefore, senior citizens would think twice before settling at a place like Clearview where the health care facilities are not satisfactory.
It is clear that Clearview does not offer anything attractive apart from its beauty to retirees to make them choose it as their destination. The argument in the article given above is therefore not sufficient to support Clearview as the top priority place to settle for retired people.
