Instead of requiring students to take courses in a variety of ciplines-that is, courses ranging from the arts and the humanities to the physical and biological sciences-colleges and universities should allow students to enroll only in those courses that will help prepare them for jobs in their chosen fields. Such concentration is necessary in today's increasingly work-oriented society.
Students are exposed to all subjects in their years at school. This is done primarily to provide the students with the basic knowledge about all the subject areas. School students get ample time to assess their aptitude for a particular subject and they are able to identify the career that they would like to pursue depending on their abilities and choice.  Therefore, there is no apparent requirement for these students to take courses in a variety of ciplines when they are in college. It would be a much better option if they are allowed to enroll for only those courses that will train them for their choice of careers.
Today there is cut throat competition for gaining a foothold in any career. There are a number of lucrative jobs that are held in high regard by students and these students wish to be well trained in order to succeed in the career of their choice. Since there are a large number of applicants for a promising job, the companies need an evaluation system by which they can separate the well qualified applicants from the ones who are not suitable for the job. This is where it becomes necessary to be specifically qualified for that particular job rather than having some knowledge about the job requirements along with knowledge on other subjects that are not related to the job. Everyone is out to prove that he is the best and the companies are hiring only those who are able to provide some form of certification for proving their worth. This certification may be in the form of a degree from a reputed institute or in the form of a certificate awarded by an institute after passing their certification tests. A student has to be well prepared for all the tests that he may have to appear for before he can succeed in the career of his choice.
For instance, consider a student who is keen on becoming a computer professional. He may have to acquire certifications from Microsoft, CISCO or some other reputed institutions as added qualifications. Such certified professionals are more likely to succeed in getting a good job as compared to those who are not certified. This is because companies give preference to certified professionals when it comes to hiring suitable candidates for a job. It would be a total waste of time and effort for such a student if he has to spend precious time during his college days studying subjects that are not going to help him in any way for his preparation for the certification tests. Contrast this scenario with a case wherein a student is allowed to enroll for a course that not only trains him for a career in computers, but also prepares him for the certification tests.  It is obvious that the second student stands a much better chance of succeeding in his life and career as opposed to the first student who spent most of his college days studying subjects that were not even remotely related to computers.
If you are the recruitment officer of a vehicle repair company which is hiring mechanics, would you just pick up any college graduate or would you go in for a candidate who has done a specialized course in vehicle mechanics and is an ASE (National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence) certified vehicle mechanic? The answer is evident. There is no way that you would select a candidate who has probably studied vehicle mechanics as one subject. It is obvious that the second candidate is a better choice. Colleges and universities have the responsibility of grooming the citizens of the country in such a way that they are able to create not only employment for everyone, but also provide well qualified and trained personnel to the industry. Therefore, in the interest of the nation, it is necessary that students be given the option of enrolling only for those courses which will help them in their choice of career.
