Government officials should rely on their own judgment rather than unquestioningly carrying out the will of the people whom they serve.
The government of a nation is meant to serve its people and take care of its present and future well-being. In any country, it is not possible for any government to survive if it does not satisfy its compatriots. When people are not happy with their leaders, there is bound to be revolt, agitation and defiance of the government's decisions. Nonetheless, it is not wise for any government and its officials to 'unquestioningly' accept the demands of its people. There has to be contemplation over every decision that a government makes and over every requirement of the public. I agree with the given statement, mainly owing to the word 'unquestioningly.'
It is the duty of any government to look after its people. No matter which form of government a country follows, the government is to put the interests of its people before any other agenda. Well being of its people is the sole criteria that a government should consider while making any decisions. When the government, its decisions and policies do not satisfy people, they are sure to revolt. The uprising of Indians against British and the recent revolt of Tibetans against China and are such examples. Such revolts are even seen at lower levels of organization of public. If a state is not happy with the way its leaders function, there are revolts and agitation against them. Though the society has to be satisfied, it is not wise for any government to listen to its people without questioning their opinions.
Every society is composed of people from different classes. There are those who are poor, middle class and rich. Similarly, a society can also be classified according to the occupations of people. There are businessmen, salaried employees, entrepreneurs, private and public sector employees in every society. The requirements of each category of people are different and so are their expectations from the government. Because of the differences that exist in its people, it is very rare that unanimous opinions exist. It is then the government's duty to reach a decision that is acceptable by one and all. For everyone to be satisfied, it is required that each opinion be given due consideration and be questioned by the government. If certain claims and demands are made by its people, the government has to question the basis of the same. This questioning has to be done for ensuring that what people want is actually what they require. Never should a consensus be arrived at without cussions and debates.
At times, there are policies of a government that are made by keeping the future in mind, rather than a short-lived present comfort. At other times, there are decisions that are for the betterment of downtrodden sections of society rather than for the creamy layer. Such decisions could upset one lot of people and satisfy others. It is then up to the government to consider different judgments and take a tough stand. The government is meant to serve its people, but it is a composition of leaders. The leaders should keep the interest of people in the forefront and take tough decisions about things that they foresee as beneficial, irrespective of the opposition they face.
