While some leaders in government, sports, industry, and other areas attribute their success to a well-developed sense of competition, a society can better prepare its young people for leadership by instilling in them a sense of cooperation.
When a young child is brought up, there are numerous things he has to be taught, many of which are conflicting. While one has to learn how to be polite, he has to even be taught how to be adamant when it is so required. Where compassion for all human beings is to be taught, it is also required that the child be taught how to stay away from cons. Bringing up a child and preparing him to be a good leader is, thus, very challenging. There are numerous debates and cussions on whether a spirit of competition is more beneficial or a sense of cooperation is better. In my view, both these aspects are important for a well-balanced personality to develop. Where competition is required, it is equally important to learn how things can be done through cooperation.
In today's competitive world, it is not possible for all of us to make our mark. It is only those few who are motivated and capable enough that make a place for themselves in society. Such people finally become leaders in their own right and inspire millions.  For such people, the motivation can come from any source. It could be an aspect of one's personality such as his sense of competition, compassion, altruism, self-confidence, charity, leadership, intelligence, passion, greed, jealousy, pride or anything else that could be the reason for his success. A true leader is the one who inspires people to become like him. For instance, if we were to choose a leader from the past, we would prefer Mahatma Gandhi to Hitler. Gandhi was compassionate where Hitler was one of the cruelest people ever. His pride and determination led to his success, though he could never win the hearts of people. Gandhi, on the other hand, was compassionate towards people. He spearheaded the Indian independence struggle while cooperating with people of different sections of society and became a true leader of masses and classes alike. He continues to inspire millions.
Cooperation among different nations is a major reason why humankind is surviving. Without exchanging our raw materials, human resources, food, medicines, technology, armies etc, it would not be possible for any country to sustain itself. Similarly, political parties can achieve a lot if they cooperate with each other for the betterment of the nation as a whole, though this is very difficult to achieve.
At the same time, it is equally important for a spirit of competition to remain alive. Great sportsmen insist on a compelling sense of competition for success. In fact, many sportsmen provoke themselves by some means or the other to develop a feeling of vengeance towards their competitors. Children perform much better if there is healthy competition in class. A bright student among mediocre classmates might never strive enough because of lack of competition and challenges. A student among those who are at par with him will strive to beat them and excel. This does not mean that such competitive students should not cooperate with each other. The challenge here is to teach children where the line is to be drawn. In the name of cooperation, one should not be cheated and for the sake of competition, one should not fill one's heart with contempt and vengeance.
It is not the sense of competition or cooperation that leaders require, but the judicious use of these aspects. Though it is difficult for these two qualities to co-exist, it is vital nonetheless. Healthy competition, wherever it exists leads to success and improvement. Unhealthy competition will always result in degradation, either of quality or of morals. We should thus teach our young people how to respect others, cooperate with them and compete for improvement of their own selves.
